Now that we've done that,
we have the first component.
Let's go ahead and
let you all play around with creating
your own components from your app.
So the exercise here is to basically
go inside of your forum app.
So whether it's the office,
or community, or whatever.
And then,
look at your index.html file, and go.
Okay, I wanna create some components
out of this, how will I do it?
And to give some preface as well, you will
run into a limitation pretty quickly,
as far as things that
you wanna do with it.
But, I wanna just get you in the practice
of creating some.vue files, and
just know that it'll functionally be
broken until we get back together.
But I just wanna get you all in
the habit of practicing that.
Does that sound good?
So you're basically try scoping,
bringing stuff together.
Let's see how that goes.
Okay, welcome back everyone.
So hopefully you all had some
fun creating components, but
I was kind of walking around and
checking how people were doing,
you probably ran into a problem basically
as you started migrating stuff because
a lot of your code is
dependent on one another.
And so you might have noticed up instead
of moving stuff that it was like being
like wait,
where's this thing you reference to and
like had trouble talking to each other.
So let's go and
show you what I mean by that.
So let me start by
opening up my App.vue for
my Avatar Last Airbender.
And so, as we can see here,
we have a couple of sections here
that could really make sense.
We see a bunch of h2's, they could make
sense as components, to be totally honest.
As far as like these are the characters,
this is the character list.
And so let's actually try
something as simple as that.
Let's go ahead and
start by inside of our components.
Let's create a characterList.vue.
Okay, and I'm gonna bring this over.
And then we have our script
block that we're gonna have, and
we're gonna have our template block.
This time I'm gonna flip it a bit, and
we're gonna start by
bringing over all the HTML.
So the H2 up until this point,
is all to do with the characters, okay?
So if you save that, a lot of stuff is
gonna be missing, but that's totally fine.
And let's just say placeholder for
character list.
And then up here, this is where
it gets a little bit tricky now.
Okay, what do we wanna do?
Well, we know that characterList
here is relevant, so let's start by
exporting a default object cuz this
is the object that defines our app.
So characterList is here.
Great, let's do that.
So oops, I need my data property, and
then I can put my character list in here,
awesome.
And then let's see, what else we got?
Well, we have that.
We have length, this is pretty good.
Actually, this is, actually here.
We have a favorite character, okay?
How do we do that?
Let's see this go here.
Yes, we have a method here for
favorite character.
So I'm just gonna copy the whole block
knowing that I would delete the add new
character.
And this is probably
what you started doing.
And then you're like, yes,
there's also this.favoritelist.
And then we're like, okay,
let's add that to here favoriteList and
then we save, and
then you're thinking okay, great.
I'm gonna import characterList from
components.characterlist.vue, okay.
That's that, and then you're like
I'm gonna register my component at
characterList, just like that.
Okay, and then, oops,
this needs to be renamed properly.
And then you probably came in and
was like okay,
I'm gonna try to call my characterList
component inside of here.
Now if we take a look at what's happening
here, so let me go ahead and close this.
And then we're gonna go ahead and
get out of this go over to our atla-forum.
Run that dev, great.
You're probably gonna realize very
shortly that nothing is working.
Anyone have any guesses as
to why nothing is working?
>> Cuz your parent app relies on
the hairstylist for the benderStatistics.
>> Okay, so as we can see here, we
actually are relying on inside of App.vue,
sorry let's,
I technically move this at this point.
We're actually trying to reference
this characterList property,
but you'll notice it's gone, and
this is what I was mentioning earlier.
When you have components scoped,
the data are scoped to the component.
It's not scoped to the entire app.
So in other words, this whole
characterList component, which I made
based on impulse, actually, if we think
about data flow, it's the wrong way.
Because the characterList is
actually basically at the top.
That's the thing that
serves everything else.
So let's rethink that over again, because
what we really want is the ability to have
the app pushed down into child components,
right,
single direction data flow is a very big
topic these days because it helps to
basically ensure that
things are easier to track.
I know that was one of the initial
blowbacks when it came to two-way binding,
is that people were confused
about which way data was flowing.
But that doesn't make two-way data binding
like wrong, in it of itself, right?
We can see that when it's
done in an encapsulated way.
That's easy to understand, it's great.
But when it comes to long data flows, we
found as an industry that unidirectional
data flow basically from top down
is like keeping that consistent for
the most part has been very helpful for
making things maintainable and
easier to basically work on.
Okay, so actually what I've done here as
an exercise is an exercise in futility.
So I'm gonna go ahead and clear these
changes and we're gonna go ahead and
take a look how we should be thinking
about componentizing our app.
So I can go ahead and delete this, and
then we can refresh the app now.
Okay, everything should be working.
I think I made everything crash.
Okay, refresh.
Okay, everything's good.
Okay, so the way to think about
components is really the component tree.
Again, your App.vue is at the very top,
everything else goes down from that.
So let's pick something smaller to
refractor to kind of show you what I mean.
The easiest thing for here,
it looks like is actually probably the
statistics module that we had just built.
Because really,
it has the one computed property here, and
then after that, that's basically it.
There's not really any other dependency,
so this is a nice, small,
encapsulated one that we can practice on.
So here I'll sell it benderStatistics.vue.
And this time I blow it up to the side
since we're not worried about how it looks
right now.
And so what we wanna go ahead and
do is go and see what that looks like.
So first I'm gonna grab the template,
doo doo doo.
There we go.
And the template is this short blog.
It's just this h2 statistics.
And as well we're going to loop through
and find this benderStatistics.
Okay, so
now we need that data property, script.
And the data property we're looking for
here is benderStatistics here.
And it looks like this is the only
computed property in this entire app,
so we can actually just
cut the whole thing.
And we can export our default object and
paste in our computed property,
which is great, okay?
Now, this is feeling better.
However, as you mentioned before,
we still have a block,
in that, if we go ahead and open this
up inside of V right now, so if I save,
you'll notice that one, it's fine, right?
The benderStatistics doesn't show up, no
errors, and that's to be expected because,
well, we're not calling anything.
But, when we add import benderStatistics.
And so that was an autocomplete by the
way, no magic there, just it's reading it.
There we go.
We can register it.
So components, BenderStatistics.
Then we can try to call it
by rendering it out here.
Okay, boom, big error, why?
Because if we look inside of the for
each, what's it looking for?
Is looking for characterList,
doesn't exist, right?
So now we've proven both ways that data
just doesn't magically get scoped out.
And that again, this is a good thing,
because you want things to inherently be
scoped to the context in which they're in.